Chapter 8 - Scrum Master Anti-Patterns (#66)
Vaibhavpratapsingh22/Courses: 7-scrum-master-role/8-anti-patterns.md

<p align="center"> <img width="500" height="" src="https://age-of-product.com/wp-content/uploads/28-capacity-sprint-planning-slack-time-overutilization-1650.jpg"></p>

### Scrum Master Anti-Patterns During the Sprint

The Sprint is an event in itself that contains all the work and all the other events that happen during the time-boxed period of development. The following anti-patterns focus on the mishandling of the Sprint itself:

**1. Flow disruption:** The SM allows stakeholders to disrupt the flow of the Scrum team during the Sprint. There are several possibilities of how stakeholders can interrupt the flow of the team during a Sprint. Any of the examples will impede the team’s productivity. The SM must prevent them from manifesting themselves:

> - The SM has a laissez-faire policy as far as access to the development team is concerned.

Reviewer: Bullet points never end with a full stop.

Reviewer 2: They do, they do!

Author: It's a tricky thing some times they are needed and some times they are not. It all depends on the context. @Vaibhavpratapsingh22 It's my bad that I wrote this on your previous PR. I should have checked it. Sorry about that!

**3. No Retro:** The Scrum Master does not gather data during the Sprint that supports the team in the upcoming retrospective. This could also be a sign of frustration.\
**4. No Documentation:** The Scrum Master does not take minutes for later use. A retrospective is a substantial investment, and the Scrum team should take it seriously. Taking notes and photos supports this process.\
**5. No psychological safety:** The retrospective is an endless cycle of blame and finger pointing without intervention from the Scrum Master. The team wins together, and the team loses together. The blame game documents both the failure of the Scrum Master as the facilitator of the retrospective as well as the team’s lack of maturity and communication skills.\
**6. Bullying is accepted:** One or two team members are dominating the retrospective. This communication behavior is often a sign of either a weak or uninterested Scrum Master.\
**7. Stakeholder alert:** The Scrum Master permits stakeholders to participate in the retrospective. The retrospective is off-limits to stakeholders, and the Scrum Master needs to enforce this rule.

> ### Scrum Master Antipatterns that May Impair Your Team

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Scrum Master Anti-Patterns that May Impair Your Team
```
